# OpenLibra Referendum 001
## Left Outer Join: A governance proposal

For the purpose of this document OpenLibra.io (OL.io) is a **cooperative formed as a response to Libra.** The cooperative is a subcommunity, part of a movement called OpenLibra.

Voting "yes" on this proposal ratifies:

1. Creation of a Stewards council (as originally specified in [The Union White Paper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SW8pWj3WaPmSNO2pSFx_pyLrwSXM_ty4pMmanX7aD4o/edit)) which is representative of the OL.io community (authorized by the voter registration list, as described above), and that has decision-making authority of all OL.io resources stated below.
1. That the headcount of the Stewards council may grow or be reduced.
1. That seed set of Stewards are a list of individuals that have contributed work products (i.e. deliverables) to Working Groups over the last six months, as documented in [White Pages](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bawwp4YByfsNmdCydcxgt-lDxPzTyR_ZJYAYVxOCLK8/). They are, in alphabetical order:
    1. Tony Arcieri
    1. Ethan Buchman
    1. Ankur Shah Delight
    1. Eleftherios Diakomichalis
    1. Andrew Dickson
    1. Naol Duga
    1. Lucas Geiger
    1. Zaki Manian
    1. Barnabe Monnot
    1. Georgios Piliuras
    1. Lane Rettig
    1. Michael Zargham
1. Work products of OL.io will be organized under Working Groups. The current set of Working Groups is as follows:
    1. Tech
    1. Governance
    1. Economics
    1. Operations
1. The Stewards collectively have the duty to define Working Groups and to elect Working Group leaders. 
    1. Working group leaders have executive decision making power within the context of their working groups and collaborate to ensure alignment between working groups. The working group leaders are accountable to the Stewards at large to act in the interest of the cooperative.
1. The Stewards collectively admit and graduate individual Stewards.
    1. proposals for new working groups (as well as sunsetting working groups), 
    1. election of working group leaders, 
1. The resources owned and Governed by OL.io are:
    1. Github account Open-Libra,
    1. Discord server OpenLibra, 
    1. Twitter handle
    1. The domain OpenLibra.io
1. Resources explicitly NOT governed by OL.io
    1. OpenLibra Mark
        1. OL.io explicitly does not take ownership of the OpenLibra mark. It may be used by any community. This proposal if approved mandates the stewards to never register the OpenLibra mark or otherwise prohibit other communities from using the mark.
