(The author can be reached at root@synestate.com // PGP: D9A10698C7AE419C)

## Bootstrapping Governance the Conservative Way                                

For the purpose of this document OL is a **cooperative[1] under formation as a response to L**.

OL may respond variously through publications, critique, thought leadership, technologies, and, possibly, via competing[2] network(s) that is (are) comparably more “open”[3] than that of L.

OL should avoid responding prematurely with a token-centric response[4]. While they may be useful, tokens will undoubtedly introduce unnecessary overhead for the cooperative.

The cooperative should seek grant funding for R&D and in so doing attract value-aligned funders. This might change, subject to OL deliberation, in the future (say a year or two?).

The governance of the OL cooperative should be kept simple. In the early days it should solve for transparency/efficiency/accountability and avoiding a “tyranny of structurlessness” rather than maximizing decentralization. As the direction of L is unclear, OL should aim to be agile in its ability to continue responding. The less complex the mechanism of its governance the better.

As all contributors to OL are hitherto known[5] individuals, the “cypherpunk” temptation of spinning up DAOs etc. should be questioned. Instead, collaboration tools that help maximize efficiency of the cooperative should be sought and used in its early days (read today).

To this end, the author proposes use of these exemplar tools to bootstrap OL coop governance:

* Loomio
* Keybase (read: dogfooding good ol’ cryptography)

While the Gov WG proposal makes a distinction between so-called Stewards and the rest of the “Union”, this document proposes that all (25?) contributors to be “Members” of a cooperative under formation. The governance challenge will then be scaling the cooperative’s Membership through a network formation game. Therein lies the fundamental governance challenge of OL as a cooperative: growing its membership base while responding to L, which is its raison d'être.

Of course, OL is an open brand, so to speak. Other instances of OL are free to experiment with tokens (or other machinations & structures as they see fit). This doc is meant for bootstrapping OL as member managed cooperative that’s arguably conservative in its governance approach.

________________

[1] “cooperative” was used to describe OL in the Town Hall when the Gov WG presented its proposal.<br/>
[2] A network can be based on L’s tech or something different (e.g. SCP “open membership” FBA protocol)<br/>
[3] “open” needs a precise definition. What does it really mean? One could argue that OL exists to discover, through a deliberative / learning process, what an open antithesis to L might look like.<br/>
[4] The issuance of 1 or more tokens which may serve, among other things, a governance purpose.<br/>
[5] No Satoshi here. (Or is there?)<br/>
